GeantV TestEm5 (November, 2017, M.Novak)
===============================================================================

'TestEm5_GV' is a GeantV application to simulate angular distribution of
charged particles transmitted through a thin layer of material. Other
quantities like transmission/reflection coefficients or primary/secondary
leakage are also reported. (The corresponding Geant4 application is 'TestEm5'.)


----------------------------
- DETECTOR
----------------------------

The detector is a simple box with the following configurable parameters:

# Target material
    The target material can be specified as an input argument by

    --det-Target-Material-Name <name>

    Note, that <name> should be identical either to a name of a
    material defined in the TestEm5DetectorConstruction::CreateMaterials()
    method or to a name of a pre-defined NIST material.

# Target thickness:
    The target thickness can be specified as an input argument by

    --det-Target-Thickness <value>

    where <value> is the desired thickness in [cm] unit.

# Secondary production thresholds:
    When the detector is constructed, it is placed into a region. Secondary
    particle production threshold can be specified either for all particles
    (i.e. for gamma, e- and e+) or individual values for particles. A common
    value can be set by

    --det-Production-Cuts <value>

    where <value> is the common production threshold for all particles in
    length (in [cm] unit). The value will be considered only if its > 0. Values
    for individual particles can be set by

    --det-Gamma-Production-Cut    <gamma-value>
    --det-Electron-Production-Cut <electron-value>
    --det-Positron-Production-Cut <positron-value>


  -----------------------------
  - PRIMARY GENERATOR
  -----------------------------

  The primary generator is a particle gun that will generate primary particles
  at a position determined automatically (placed between the target and the
  world) and pointing toward to the target. The following options are available
  to set this primary generator:

  # Primary particle energy:
      The primary particle energy can be set as an input argument by

      --gun-Primary-Kinetic-Energy  <value>

      where value is the kinetic energy of the primary particles in [GeV] unit.

  # Primary particle type:
      The primary particle type can be set as an input argument

      --gun-Primary-Particle-Name      <name>

      where <name> should be identical one of the particle names that are
      used in the physics list (i.e. e-, e+, gamma, proton, neutron, etc).


------------------------
- PHYSICS LIST
------------------------

A custom GeantV physics list is used for the application that includes the
standrad EM processes for e- (ionization, bremsstrahlung, Coulomb scattering),
e+ (ionization, bremsstrahlung, Coulomb scattering) and gamma (photoelectric
absorption, Compton scattering, e-e+ pair production) and elastic process for
hadrons. Note, that energy loss fluctuation and e+ annihilation are not
included in the physics list. The corresponding Geant4 physics list (PhysList-
GVStandard) has been created and used as default in the equivalent 'TestEm5'
Geant4 application.

The multiple Coulomb scattering stepping algorithm can be specified as an
input argument by

  --process-MSC-Step-Limit  <name>

where <name> should be identical to the name of one of the available stepping
algorithms (i.e. UseSafety, UseDistanceToBoundary, ErrorFree).
The physics list contains an additional step limiter process. The maximum
allowed (real) step length can be set by

  --process-Step-Max-Value <value>

where value is the maximum allowed real step length in [cm] unit.



-------------------------
- MAGNETIC FIELD 
-------------------------

One can activate and set a constant magnetic field by first providing value 1 

  --field-active  1/0    

field activation input argument. Then one can set the constant field vector by using the 
      
  --field-vector   x=<value>,y=<value>,z=<value>  

An example is provided in the TestEm5_GV_magField.mac script file. Further options related to 
magnetic field propagation:    

  --field-use-RK      1/0      ==>  do/don't use Runge-Kutta integration instead of helix
  --field-eps-RK      <value>  ==>  required accuracy in the field integration
  --field-basketized  1/0      ==>  do/don/t basketize for magnetic field propagation



-------------------------
- RUN CONFIGURATION
-------------------------

The application can be used both with single and multiple worker threads.
GeantV can use multiple propagators per-worker threads and transport multiple
events simultaneously (the work/tracks will be distributed among the worker
threads). The corresponding options:

# Number of worker threads:
    The number of worker threads can be specified as an input argument by

    --config-Number-Of-Threads  <number>

# Number of propagators per-worker thread:
    The number of propagators can be specified as an input argument by

    --config-Number-Of-Propagators <number>

# Number of buffered events:
    The number of events transported simultaneously can be set as an input
    argument by

    --config-Number-Of-Buffered-Events <number>

# Total number of events to be transported:
    The total number of events to be transported can be set as an input
    argument by

    --config-Total-Number-Of-Events  <number>

# Number of primaries per event:
    The number of primary particles per event can be set as an input argument

    --config-Number-Of-Primary-Per-Events <number>
    
# Use vectorized geometry algorithms

    --config-Vectorized-Geom 1/0
    
# Default number of particles per basket 

    --config-Tracks-Per-Basket <value>

Note, config-Number-Of-Primary-Per-Events times Config-Total-Number-Of-Events
primary particles will be transported during the entire simulation.

A set of observable is collected during the simulation:
  # Angular distribution of charged particles transmitted through the target.
    One can set the corresponding histogram parameters:
    ## Name of the histogram file:

    --app-Hist1-File-Name <name>

    ## Minimum theta value (in degree) of the histogram:

    --app-Hist1-Minimum-Value <value>

    ## Maximum theta value (in degree) of the histogram:

    --app-Hist1-Maximum-Value <value>

    ## Number of bins between the minimum-maximum values:

    --app-Hist1-Bin-Number <value>

  # Mean energy deposit in the target, primary, secondary leakage and energy
    balance. Mean charged, neutral track lengths and number of steps in the
    target. Mean number of secondary gamma, e- and e+ particles per primary.
    Transmitted and backscattering coefficients.


-------------------------
- EXAMPLE
-------------------------

Experimental data 'hanson_19.dat' was taken from A.O.Hanson et al. Phys.Rev.84
(1951) page 634: angular distribution of 15.7 [MeV] electrons transmitted
through 19.296 [um] gold sample.

The 'TestEm5_GV_hanson19.mac' script is provided as an example to simulate this
experimental data using 4000 events. Each event will contain 1000 primary
electrons with 15.7 [MeV] kinetic energy. 4 events will be taken and
transported simultaneously by using 4 worker threads with one propagator each.
The simulated angular distribution is written into the 'hanson19_GV_opt0.hist'
file at the end of the simulation.
